\#\# Chapter STREAMS-- Flowers and fruit. Two different value streams and an awkward phase in the middle.
=========================================================================================================

There are some things in life that we're immediately attracted to, without thinking. There are some things which are valuable but require work. The problem with, the challenge of, project management, is that we need to move from the idea, which is immediately attractive - like a flower - to the reality, which is nourishing, but requires effort to grow - like fruit. This move from flowers to fruit is fraught with difficulty. One way of understanding this difficulty, and knowing what to do about it is by using the idea of "value streams." 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In this chapter, I'm going to talk a lot about "value streams". And
also, about "flowers" and "fruit". Of course, of those terms, "value
stream" is probably the less familiar. So, I'll try to explain value
streams first.

Value streams are often talked about with regard to "Lean" approaches to
manufacturing. And what are they exactly? In the mid 1970's there was an
energy crisis, oil prices were high. American manufacturing, especially
American car manufacturing, started to lose out to the Japanese.
Japanese cars were more reliable, cheaper and far more fuel efficient
than American cars. In many ways, Japanese cars were just better.

Eventually, academics from the business schools in America began to
write about \*why\* it might be that Japanese manufacturing was better
than American. A key concept in explaining why Japanese industry, and
especially the Toyota car company had become so successful was the idea
of the "value stream". And together with the idea of a value stream came
a very specific notion of waste.

A value stream is a series of actions that culminate in the production
of a product that's valuable to its customers. So, as the chassis of a
car moves down a production line, value gets added to it. What sorts of
things add value? Well, in the case of a car, an engine. An engine adds
value. Paint, wing mirrors, seats. You get the idea. But note, none of
this value gets realised until the car is finally being driven.

American observers also drew attention to the Japanese understanding of
what \*didn't\* add value. Activities that are going on in a factory
that don't contribute to the value stream are regarded as waste. An
example that's give in Taiichi Ohno's book, "The Toyota Production
System", is of a machine that is part of the production line that needs
to be changed when a different model of car is made. Sometimes when the
production line is changing between models, a machine has to be swapped
in or out. All of the time that it takes to swap the machine, is, from
the point of view of a value stream, waste. This seems fairly
straight-forward. But there are other kinds of waste Taiichi Ohno
identified at Toyota which perhaps aren't so intuitive. If completed
cars, having rolled off the production line, are waiting around in a
yard, they aren't delivering any value. That's also waste. If parts are
stacked high in warehouses and for long periods of time aren't being
added to any car -- that's also waste.

This is a final crucial aspect of thinking about value streams. The
value is only realised when the product that has been through the
production line, is actually sold and delivered into the hands of a
customer.

So, this investigation and explanation of how the Japanese were building
cars produced by American academics, resulted in at least three
interesting ideas.

1.  The manufacturer of a product can be arranged into a series of value
    adding steps.

2.  Any waiting around between these value adding steps is waste.

3.  Any waiting around before the final step of getting the product to
    the people who use it, that\'s also waste.

To many who read these descriptions of Japanese manufacturing, these
ideas offered a suggestion for how any organisation might improve its
process and make it more efficient. Although this is quite a leap. Not
all organisations, you might have noticed, make cars.

And one main idea came out of these discussions. If it were possible to
\*map\* the value stream -- to see what all the steps in a process are -
then it would be possible to see where there are delays and so, where
there is "waste". Then, once you've found where the waste is, you can
work to reduce it. From this way of thinking, comes a whole new way of
organising many industries and the notion of "Just in time"
manufacturing.

You might be able to see the appeal of looking at work in this way. If
we can map the value stream, and we can reduce waste between processes,
especially in the form of waiting times, then we can notionally speed up
any production process and make it more efficient.

So, there it is, that's the idea of a value stream. A series of steps
that add value to a product. And people have made good solid efforts to
apply these ideas to software development. Some of these attempts work
\[Ref: Poppendiek\] and some really don't. We'll talk about where these
ideas are exceptionally useful in a following chapter \[Chapter
SOFTWARE\].

But right now, I'm going to take this idea of value streams and stretch
it in a couple of directions. Because, I'm going to argue, that when it
comes to development of software for a new product, there isn't just one
value stream. There are (at least) two value streams. A further
complication is that, at the beginning of a project, of these two
streams, one of them doesn't exist (yet) and the other is opaque and
weird. Oh, and there's a final complication: the two value streams in
software product development interfere with each other. And when I say
"interfere" I mean that they try to kill each other, and will actually
do that, if you don't manage to stop them,

So, what are these two value streams? The first of these streams is what
I'm going to call the "virtual" value stream. This is a stream that
delivers value by looking good, sounding good, or by coming up with a
new, attractive, idea. The payoff for this value stream, is in the
funding and institutional support that arrives to make the idea happen
and an increase in reputation and standing of the people who came up
with the idea or the people who manage to take credit for it.

Is this really a value stream? In some sense, it must be. Ideas don\'t
just instantly appear fully formed and projects don\'t just instantly
get funded. So, there must be a value stream here. But quite how it
works in most organisations is opaque, which is why I say that it\'s
weird. We will talk more about this stream a bit later, but for now I
want to move on to the other stream in software development projects the
one that the start at least doesn\'t exist.

The second stream is the one I'm going to call the "virtuous" value
stream. This is the stream that delivers value, not by looking good, or
sounding like a good idea, but by actually \*doing\* good. "Doing good"
means delivering something that is valuable to the people who use it.

Because "virtual" and "virtuous" sound a bit alike. I'm also going to
borrow (I already have) an idea from Taoist thinking. This is the
distinction between flowers and fruit. The virtual value stream is like
flowers. The virtuous value stream is like fruit.

Don\'t get me wrong. It might seem as we go through this chapter that
I\'m a little bit down on flowers. I\'m not down on flowers. Flowers are
great. In project management, the part of flowers is played by ideas and
dreams. Without ideas there wouldn't be any projects.

People have ideas, those ideas get money and support and that\'s how
projects are born. Something that some ideas and most flowers have in
common is that people like them straight away. They don\'t have to think
about it. They have some attributes that are instantly attractive. It
doesn\'t take any thought to like a rose. Of course, some people might
not like roses. But the people who do? They don\'t have to take time to
work it out.

Something similar seems to happen with ideas. The kind of ideas that get
money to turn into projects seem to have a structure that makes people
like them without too much thought. Just like flowers, those who are
exposed to them tend to like them without doing much or any thinking.

Often ideas are talked about in these terms: easy, fast or cheap. Other
times, the idea's appeal is that some things won't change:

"Fully-compatible," or "with the same functionality."

Sometimes the idea's appeal is difference:

"A fresh look," or "A radically different take."

Sometimes all of these things get bundled together.

"A radically different take which does exactly what the old system did,
but faster, quicker, more easily and for less money."

And of course, all of this, almost always, is going to be delivered
using the latest technology.

"Does everything that the old system does, but quicker and cheaper and
using AI."

"Deals with all customer enquiries, using chatbots without the need for
human involvement."

"A social network, for dogs, using blockchain"

This "instant appeal" aspect of ideas is a substantial part of why I say
that the virtual value stream is weird. Yes, there might be an
application process for getting ideas funded, and, as I said, earlier,
there must be some steps to the process. But there might just as well
not be, this could just be the idea of someone really senior, or someone
who has the really senior person\'s ear. Some projects get funded on a
whim. Maybe no one in the organisation has \*any\* idea why they're
doing this. Maybe another organisation is doing it, and they just have a
strong inclination to do whatever they do. And even if there is a more
involved process, at some point, the central proposal of the project is
going to be evaluated -- and the mechanism of how an idea appeals to the
people who do that evaluation and then decide whether to fund it or not,
it is pretty much opaque.

Even though the appeal of ideas might not have any obvious logic to it.
From the examples I've given, we might see that are some common themes
in the ideas that get funded. Ideas that get funded often have these
concepts lurking in them -- "all", "same" but also "new".

Where ideas come from is a fascinating subject but I\'m going to
side-step it for now. Because the whole point of this chapter is that,
for a project to deliver, it needs to stop being fascinated by the idea
and start being fascinated by the reality. We need to stop smelling the
flowers think about how we\'re going to grow the fruit.

And there's an important difference between Flowers and fruit. Users eat
fruit. They only look at flowers. Nobody ever died from looking at a
flower (probably). A sour apple can give you bad indigestion and some
fruit is actually poisonous. A \*lot\* of fruit is either poisonous or
unpalatable until it's been properly processed.

Similarly, delivered projects need to give value to their users. This
involves an interaction with users which is different from looking at,
or smelling, flowers. Users have to get some good, some value out of
using a software product. What \'good\' that value is, is different for
different kinds of products. For example, it\'s very different for a
social media product than it is for a government form. But like fruit,
if it doesn\'t taste right, users will spit it out. Also like fruit, if
software isn't put together (grown) properly, it could do them harm.

So, what about fruit? What about this other value stream - the virtuous
value stream? The one that actually gives people what they want? In the
Toyota product system that I mentioned above, this second value stream
is the focus of all the attention, in fact, it's talked about as if it's
the only value stream. In Taiichi Ohno's, book, he's always asking
himself "How can we improve flow through the system," and "How can we
get parts to the right place in the process just in time."

There is an aspect of this that often gets missed when people try to
transfer these ideas to the development of software. Most software
development projects are developing a new product. The problem that
they're trying to solve isn't one of trying to make a better car. Toyota
didn't invent cars. Our problem is like it would be if \*nobody\* had
ever made a car. Our product is a new product, it's a one-off, nobody
has ever made one exactly like this before.

Am I exaggerating? I'm exaggerating a little bit. It's more like you and
your team are trying to build a new kind of vehicle. If you're building
a video game, well there have been video games before. But you're still
going to need to take aspects of the idea, find out which bits users
respond to and connect them together in a game that they want to buy and
spend hours playing. If you're building a form-filling application,
well, there have been those too. But you're still going to need to
understand what information you need to gather, what the best way is to
ask for the information, and how it's going to be stored and who's going
to want to look at it. The important thing to understand and admit is
that you're in a \*prototyping\* process, not a manufacturing process.
You're assembling (irrigating?) a value stream, not operating or
improving an existing one.

So how do you do this? How do put together the value adding steps that
will eventually deliver something that realises value for the customer?

Well, you have to do two things.

1.  Discover value -- explore and find out what the potential users of
    this product might want.

2.  Construct a value stream-- try to put together some software in an
    application that can deliver these values.

In the next chapter \[Chapter Swamp\] we'll talk about why, how and with
whom, you should work to discover value. Then in the chapter after that
\[Chapter SOFTWARE\], we'll talk about how to put these bits of value
together and start a value stream.

Simple right? Well, it would be, if it weren't for a third thing that
you have to do. As a result of these two steps.

3.  Deal with all the flack and fallout that comes from discovering
    value and constructing a value stream.

This the central paradox of project management. Starting to do the
project results in the alienation of the people who got the project
funded. Why? Because actually doing things results in uncovering
problems and making mistakes. By trying to implement the idea, you
undermine the idea.

This is especially true of using an Agile approach to software
development, particularly a Scrum approach. In Scrum, every day, the
team have an opportunity to report any problems that they're finding in
their attempt to realise the dream, the idea that has been funded. Add
into this mix user researchers who are talking to the users about their
needs - and we absolutely should add them. Then, pretty soon after the
project starts, you start to get a picture of what users think of the
idea. Maybe they love it, maybe they hate it, maybe they think about it
in a way that is totally unreasonable. Maybe they point out a really
good reason why it won't work. Maybe they think about it in way that was
totally unanticipated

However, they think about it, it's almost guaranteed that they way that
they think about it, isn't exactly the same as the way the people who
got the idea funded think about it. And to them -- the "keepers" of the
idea - unless they have deep and strong experience in product management
and development, this is going to appear as a threat. A status-lowering
threat.

And this is a sticky, difficult, delicate and business. And we're going
look at it from a series of different points of views in the hope of
getting a smarter way of looking at it \[Chapter CHAOS, Chapter
CONVERSATION\]. But it's always going to be tricky. On the one side we
have the dreams, on the other side, where we're headed , where we have
to be headed, is a value stream. But it's a value stream that, if it
delivers at all, will deliver something that is slightly different from
the dream. The reality, if it's to be a success, will be something that
is intimately involved with users, their enthusiasms, capabilities and
limitations. It also, if it's got a chance of success, should address
the interests and concerns of lots of other stakeholders. Regulators and
spectators and possibly investors as well as the people who came up with
the idea.

Note that this vision of a project as a balancing act between the dream
of the people who funded the idea and the wants and needs of the people,
which also incorporates new values that you discover on the journey.
This isn't exactly a "standard" view of project management.

But it is a standard account of something else. Stories and adventures.

In a lot of adventures, the hero has a dream, a vision. Or there's
always been a dream hanging around (a prophecy?). The hero has no real
idea how they're going to realise that vision. But, after some
reluctance, set off to try any way. On they way, they find things (a
sword, a statue, an inscription), people tell them things (an old man in
the forest points in a certain direction), and then they start to get a
better picture of what their quest might actually be about. They they
have lots of struggles, setback. They think about giving up. But they
don't. In a final scene, they put all of these things together, save the
day and win the prize and then go home for whatever is the nicest meal
possible, in that time period, on that planet, and in that culture.

If you're trying to deliver a project, you're on that kind of adventure.
You might not be comforted to hear this. And weirdly neither are the
people who had the original idea for the project. The people who funding
the project - they probably won't be that pleased either. But that's
where you are. The idea was just the start. Someone has to head out on
that journey. You have to find what's valuable. You have to find the
jewel, the chalice and the sword and throw those things that you found
into the fire in the temple in the right order (or something), then you
can save the world and go home for tea.

How does this help? How does seeing a project in these terms make
"delivering the impossible" any easier. Remember the quote from Alan
Kay? "Point of view is worth 90 IQ points."

I believe that thinking of a project in terms of value streams, a
virtual one, that deals in dreams and a virtuous one that needs to be
built through course of the project, does make it easier to understand
what's actually going on in a project. For example, this view of a
project explains the team's reluctance to tackle the pirate ship that we
talk about in \[Chapter SHIP\]. Why don't the team want to tackle the
pirate ship? They don't want to go on the adventure! And why would they?
Adventures are dangerous and uncertain. Especially, if the captain has
said that this shouldn't be an adventure, that he doesn't want to hear
about anything going wrong, they won't want to go. Even if he hasn't
said anything, maybe they've just gained a very good intuition of that
from the way he reacted to even the tiniest thing going wrong.\
\
In order to go an adventure, a team need encouragement and reassurance
and someone who knows the kinds of things they should being doing.
Someone who is prepared to go with them and give them encouragement,
acknowledge their struggles and try to give them the best chance of
success -- that's you!

Understanding this picture of a project, taking this point of view, as
the construction of a path through a wild and unknown space, also helps
you with one of the major causes of feeling bad for any project manager
- the principle of commitment and consistency.

The thing that gets a project funded is an idea. The aspects of an idea
that get ideas funded aren't very closely, if at all, connected with
their deliverability. Rather they're very closely connected with a
certain kind of "shiny" simplification, "new", "fast", "just like the
old system, but better", "Using AI and blockchain." When you understand
this, you start to realise that all a funded project is, is a gesture in
a certain direction. Nobody knows \*exactly\* what you're going to find
there. Nobody knows if you're going to be able to put together what you
find there and get it to deliver value. If you're the project manager of
this "gesture in a certain direction" that's got funding and resources,
what can you possibly promise? What can you possibly commit to? How can
you be consistent?

This isn't a rhetorical question. There are a bunch of things can
commit. You can commit to going on the journey and taking the team with
you. You can commit to doing all you can, as a team, to explore the area
that the project points to (this is the "swamp" that we'll talk about in
the next chapter) and you can commit to finding what's useful valuable
and attractive there \[Chapter SWAMP\]. You can commit to putting
together a prototype value stream that connects these values together to
deliver that value as soon as you possibly can. That's what working
software is, and we'll be talking about it in \[Chapter SOFTWARE\].

When you start to look at projects in this way there is both good news
and bad news. The bad news is that for almost all projects you have to
go on the adventure. There is no way of taking the idea, the thing that
got funded through the "virtual value stream", and just implementing it.
There is almost never enough detail in the idea. In fact lack of detail
is probably part of the idea's appeal. And then there's even more bad
news. The only way to realise the idea, is to substantially explore the
area that it points at. But then, having explored, you need to decide
which of the things you find are valuable, and then of valuable things
you've found, which you're going to put together in a value stream.
Finally, you have to build that value stream. That's a lot of work. And
it's work that has to be done whilst somehow not upsetting the people
who had the idea.

So, lots of bad news. Is there any good news? Well, the good news is
that if you follow this approach, you will have given yourself and the
people you work for, the best chance of delivering on even the most
impossible-sounding projects. Looking at projects in this way, might
just give you the bump of 90 IQ points that Alan Kay talked about. It
helps you know what you're doing. Why are you doing user research?
Because that's how we discover values. Why are you putting together
working software and putting it in the hands of users? Because that's
how we take the values that we've uncovered and start to put them
together into a value stream that can deliver and we can do that, on any
project, no matter how crazy the idea sounds.

Finally, there's one bit of news that you could get, that doesn't come
to every project, but when it does, it's really good news.

The infamous veteran sales copywriter Gary Halbert (he wrote one book --
he wrote it from jail where he was serving time connected with something
he'd written in some sales copy). Gary Halbert tells a story of a
question that he asks people who come along to his copy writing courses.
He sets the scene. I'm paraphrasing here: "You're going to have a
hamburger stand, and I'm going to have a hamburger stand. You can have
anything you want to make your hamburgers sell and I'm going to have
just one thing, and I'm going to beat you every time."

Of course, his students now play what we'd recognise as the "Hipster"
burger game. "Kobe beef", "Artisanal sour dough bread" and "Ethical meat
grown in a lab." Lots of fancy features on the product. Or they go the
"super value" route -- "buy one, get one free."

Then Gary Halbert tells his students the thing that he's going to have
that's going to mean his burger stand is more successful than theirs --
a hungry crowd.

A hungry crowd.

This applies to burgers, and it applies to software product development.
If you have a hungry crowd, that's the best bit of news you can possibly
get. If the organisation that is paying you to deliver this project
really, really needs this project to be delivered, that is a huge
benefit. Even better is if the users of the product really need it to be
delivered. In my experience, when an organisation is really, really
desperate to have a piece of software delivered, they will actually
tolerate the kind of approaches that we've talked about (user research,
early release of working software). Notice I say tolerate, that's a lot
different from "enthusiastically support."

So, beyond all the talk of fruit and flowers, virtual and virtuous value
streams, there's a simpler way of seeing projects and seeing what you're
doing when you're managing projects. In terms of push and pull. Ideas
are push. A hungry crowd is pull. Ideas push you out into this "land of
adventure" where you find all sorts of things that might be valuable,
but the challenge is to decide which of those to connect together.
