
## Chapter SWAMP - The Swamp
==============================

Any project that has the potential to be of value, has an element of the unknown about it. It's like trying to build on a swamp. There is untapped potential. There are pitfalls. The way to succeed in this kind of environment is to acknowledge that you're exploring. One aspect of doing this exploration is user research. Another is stakeholder research. It's almost always a struggle to do either of these. For different reasons.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Imagine that a property developer has given you money to develop houses
in a swamp. How would you go about doing that? Would you just start
work? Or would you feel the need to do a little bit of exploration
first? Wouldn't it be a good idea to know what's in the swamp?

What if I told you that there were people who already live in the swamp?
And that there's no way that you're going to be able to build without
upsetting them? They don't want you to build there, they're quite
happy with things just the way they are.

But then again, there are also people who are keen to move into the
swamp when you *have* built there. They've already given the property
developer money. They want you to build in the swamp fast, so they can
move in.

People who live there, and people who want to live there. They have
interests in the swamp. But they aren't the only ones. There are people
who care generally about bogs and marshes. There are people who are
interested in building regulations for any kind of engineering or
construction. There is government. Local government will probably want
to levy some kind of tax. You will probably need planning permission.
National government will have building regulations. And beyond
government, there might even be global bodies that care about this
swamp. There are people who you need to talk to about getting a road to
come right up to the swamp. Because, whatever you're doing in the swamp,
the likelihood is that you'll need to connect to existing
infrastructure.

And there are people who don't care about you, don't care about the
property developers, all they care about is the swamp. These people
might be eco activists. They might be political activists. The swamp
might be on a very old burial ground. It might be the site of a buried
temple.

And that's just the people who are interested in the swamp. What about
the plants and animals who already in the swamp? Maybe there are new
species there, interesting to science. Maybe there are plants, unknown
to western medicine, but the locals use them as a miracle cure. What
about the geology? Maybe there's oil. Maybe there's gold.

Why am I babbling about swamps? What does this have to do with software
product development? What's the point I'm trying to make?

My point is that there are a lot of people who have very varied
interests in what you're doing. Some of those are directly associated
with the project, some of those will directly benefit from the project.
But there are also a lot of other people who are only distantly
associated with your project. When you start, you might not have heard
of them, they might not have heard of you, but you're still important
to each other. If the project is going to be a success, it would be good
to keep those people happy. Maybe there is something that you can do for
those people that would make them happy and in doing so, would make you
a fortune.

On the other hand, it might be a really bad idea to annoy them. Maybe
you can't avoid it, but it would still be good to know that it's going
to happen.

Here we're picking up on the way of seeing projects that we talked about
in [Chapter STREAMS]. Projects are things that are done in a complex
environment. There are lots of people who interested in that
environment. And the interests that they have are extremely varied.

I didn't really get this completely until I worked on one project. On
this project, I worked with a woman who did research with users. She
really did research with users. As soon as the project started, she
contacted potential users of the product and arranged meetings. She was
running workshops with them, getting to know them and developing a
relationship. First, she got to understand their "pain points". Then
she got them to start to sketch, with pen and paper, graphical user
interfaces that might start to address these points.

Then the designer on the team made interfaces informed by this research.
They looked real, but at this stage they were still only models. These
were again, tested with users. If there were serious problems with them,
they were modified and then tested again.

This kept going. She hired another researcher. They both did research on
users. They did research with internal users in the organisation we were
working for and external users, who were the organisation's customers. I
worked on this project for over three years. And the research never
stopped. It didn't stop when we had working software that we could test
with users. It didn't stop when we had a version of the software that
had a copy of the user's sensitive data running on it. This gave them a
chance to see what it would be like using the live product. It certainly
didn't stop when we went live.

I'd been involved in projects that had user researchers before. But this
was the first time that I'd seen a project that was led by user research
right from the start. And the project continued to be informed by user
research all of the way through development.

I learned a lot from watching this happen. And there were a couple of
things that were surprising about it for me. The first is that, if you
do this much research on your users you won't just find out about your
users. You'll get to know a lot about other people who aren't exactly
users. But, to lurch back to our metaphor, these are still people who
are interested in the swamp. We found other regulatory groups that our
users needed to please, and our product had to support. These were
people who, even if they weren't users, were stakeholders. And they went
on our stakeholder map.

This was another important idea that I hadn't come across before.

Do enough research on your users and you end up with a "stakeholder
map". Do even more research on your users and you get a "stakeholder
ecology". You start to understand not only who all the people are who
have some interest in the swamp, but also how these stakeholders
interact. You start to see what's really happening, in and around the
swamp. You start to see opportunities to do good and to be a success.
Many of these would not be at all obvious if you hadn't done these
investigations. And you also start to see where there are dangers and
problems and potentially unhappy people who could cause you and the
project trouble.

This project was the first time that I really understood the value of
user research. But I really should have understood it about fifteen
years earlier. Because I had previously worked on a user centred design
project. Maybe the thing was that it wasn't exactly a software
development setting. Maybe I'm just a bit slow. But I hadn't quite
connected the dots.

"What can a ten-year-old teach me?" I was sitting in an office in
Athens, arguing with a Polish software developer in a room full of
technical guys from all over Europe. None of them seemed to think that
we needed to do any user research on a project that had the phrase "user
centred design" in its title.

It was a European Union funded project. The first aim of the project was
to design an application that used tangible user interfaces. Tangible
user interfaces are interfaces that you can get hold of, pick up and
move around. The second aim of the project was to use these interfaces
to help school children construct discursive arguments. My organisation
was doing the user research for the project. "Iterative, user-centred
design" was in the title of the funding bid. Still, most of the software
developers and search engine experts on the team were sceptical. They
didn't see the point of talking to users, especially since, in this
case, our users were schoolchildren. But still, we did it.

And what we found was interesting and, as is almost always the case when
you do user research, unexpected. It pointed out a potential route
towards making a successful product. And this was a route that, if we
hadn't talked to users, we would never have imagined.

One thing that we found straight away from talking to users
(schoolchildren who were 10-11 years old) was that they didn't really
need help with the logic of an argument. For example, when discussing
the subject of graffiti, they understood that there was a contradiction
between statements like:

>> People should be able to express themselves freely

and

>> It's against the law to paint messages on public buildings.

What the kids did seem to need help with, was putting the bits of
evidence that they found into a structure that worked as a persuasive
argument.

That's the thing that we found out really quickly. And this was an
important way that we could help the residents of this particular swamp.
We found it out by doing direct research with them in schools. They
didn't need any help understanding logic. What they needed help and
support with was gathering evidence and putting it in a structure that
sounded like a persuasive argument.

That was the great thing about doing research in real schools. But when
we started to do research, we found out about some other concerned
parties who didn't live in the swamp. They were a long way away. Even
so, they really cared about what happened there - the government. At the
time when we did this research, the government insisted that all the
schools in England follow a "National Curriculum." Pretty much every
lesson that the kids did, had to show that it satisfied a specific
learning requirement.

We realised this after these early research sessions. We needed to
design our future research sessions so that, at the same time, they
directly addressed something mentioned in the curriculum. And we needed
to make it obvious to the teachers that that was what we were doing.
Why? Because the teachers were also swamp residents of course! If we did
this, we made it much easier for the teachers to support us.

Fortunately, we had an ex-teacher on our team. So, we could design our
research sessions so that they also made sense as national
curriculum-focused lessons.

A long time later, I found myself working on software development
project. This company was successful and highly regarded in one area of
business - mobile phone service provision. In the world of mobile phone
service provision it had a pretty cool image. So some of the senior
people there wondered if they could succeed in another area - personal
loans. Yes, that was the project. Making personal loans cool. Again,
this team had done a lot of work to develop a personal loan website and
they'd done lots of research with users. Then a potential business
partner mentioned a possible problem. They pointed out that any company
that lends money needs to be regulated by the financial authorities.

You may lift your eyebrows slightly at a company that didn't talk to
the regulators before starting up in the money-lending business. You can
also see that research with users and mapping of stakeholders would have
made something as important as that very clear, very quickly. User
research is great, and this project would have seriously benefitted from
user research. But the point I'm making here is that it isn't enough to
do research with users. You also have to find all these other people,
regulators, investors, commentators on the ethics of your industry. To
come back to the swamp metaphor, these are people who don't live in the
swamp. These are people who live miles from the "swamp" and who will
never visit it. But they still care what goes on in there. And if these
people aren't happy, sometimes, they can kill a project.

You might say that I'm just exaggerating. Software development projects
aren't that different from one another. Swamps aren't all that
different from one another. You've seen one swamp you've seen them
all. Do you know what this sounds like to me? Well, it sounds like
ignoring the pirate ship, for a start [Chapter SHIP].

But also, in later chapter [Chapter Ref] we're going to talk about
driving a car as a metaphor for managing a project. And here's just an
early view of that way of seeing things. Some people might say "One
project is pretty much just like any other, I don't see why you need to
do any more investigation with users." They're saying something
that's the equivalent of "Yeah, I've driven cars before, there's no
need for me to look at the road."

Yes, controlling the car, and managing the team might be similar from
project to project. But outside of the car, or the team, the environment
can be very different. And my main point in using this metaphor of the
swamp is that if you look out through the windscreen, you may well find
that there isn't a road. Or that the road is blocked by monsters. Or
that there is a very nice road, that it looks very easy to drive down,
but if you do, you will get a massive fine or, actually, in some cases
get sent to jail.

Lots of people will say that user research is a waste of time. Actually,
more often than not, they won't say that. They will agree with you. Yes,
yes, user research is very important, but it just isn't needed on this
project. Or they won't bother making any argument, they just won't put
any budget for it in their projects. They won't hire people to do it.
Lots of people will see a software development project as merely that -
a matter of software development.

Do you know what you should do if you're managing a team in this kind
of situation? You should do user research anyway. If you don't have
somebody on the team who's a dedicated user researcher, you should
still do some user research. You should do "user research" with the
people in the team that you have -- on the basis that they're sentient
humans and their responses to user interfaces will still be interesting
and useful. And you should still push to talk to users, or, where
possible include a user as a product owner or business analyst. OK, it
won't be anywhere near as good as a full programme of user research
done by professionals. But one of the main aims of doing this research
should be to find out surprising stuff. Then maybe, you can take what
you find back to whoever is paying for the project. Maybe you can show
them what you found and use it as a case for more user and stakeholder
research.

Another criticism of my insistence on user research is what might be
called the "faster horse" objection. Henry Ford said something like
"If I'd given the people what they want, I'd have given them a faster
horse." When I talk about the swamp, I'm not saying that you should
give any of those people associated with it exactly what they ask for.
What I *am* saying is that whatever you do has a much greater chance
of success if it's informed by what they've asked for.

I've worked on lots of projects where we either haven't done any user
research or haven't done anywhere near enough. And, if I'm being
totally honest, on most of those projects, it didn't bother me that
much.

I described a project earlier. The one where we did research with
children in the classroom. That project was described as "iterative
user-centred design" and that is pretty much what we did. I should have
learned from that project how important user research is. But I still
didn't really put it together. I still didn't quite realise how
important for the success of a project it is that you do iterative
design and development, and that it should be user centred. The only way
to do that is to keep talking to users and keep putting working software
in their hands.

Now that I've seen it really work, I'm convinced that it's one of the
best ways of reducing the risk on a project. But it's still going to be
very hard to persuade the people who are paying for that project that
they need user researchers. And not just one, and not just at the
beginning. They need people talking to users and potential users all the
way through. It's even harder than getting support for development of
working software.

There's something I feel I should own up to here. I'm convinced of the
value of continuing user research through a software product development
project. But I don't know how to combine user research and the early
development of working software without creating disagreements and
arguments.

Research on users and stakeholders needs to keep going all the way
through a project. And what the researchers find out needs to inform
software development. Then that software needs to be put in the hands of
users. This is what we'll talk about more in [CHAPTER ESCAPE]. Then
the team needs to listen to the feedback that comes back from users.
This feedback needs to be considered and incorporated into future
versions of the software.

Making sure that the team is well-informed is important. The best chance
of success for a project is when the team are aware of what the users
and stakeholders want. The chances get even better if the team can put
working software into users' hands. And even better still if feedback
from users starts to guide future iterations. But it isn't an easy ride.

When the interests of all, or some of the interested parties in the
swamp are discovered, it's very unlikely that they'll all be compatible.
And if they aren't, there are often going to be a lot of different
possible solutions that fully or partially satisfy one or other of the
groups' needs.

In agile methods, the final decision about what goes in the product is
supposed to rest with the product owner. The idea is that they listen to
the feedback that comes in from all directions and make good decisions
about which bits to listen to and which bits to ignore. But of course,
the product owner is just another human being. It's very likely that the
decisions that they make won't be perfect.

In a way, it's your job as a project manager to make sure that these
conflicts happen. But at the same time, you have another important job
as a project manager. You need to look after the psychological safety of
the team. Reassure your team that conflicts that are emerging as a
result of doing research are good, healthy conflicts. You may not get
things right initially. But if you're setting up an iterative process,
you don't have to. At every stage, even if you get something very
wrong, further user research will pick it up and allow you to correct
it.

What if your project has no budget at all for user research? There are
still things that you can do.

Talk to your stakeholders about risks.

This is something you should do even if your project has a full
complement of user researchers. I'd worked on many projects that had a
"risk register." My experience was that this was a document that got
written at the very beginning of a project and then ignored. As a
result, my opinion of risk registers was that they weren't very useful.
Then, at the very beginning of another project, the product owner
informed me that the organisation mandated that we have a risk register.
I told him that I didn't think that they were a good idea. But he came
back with a suggestion he had found on the internet for an "Agile" risk
register. This was a Kanban -- style board with three columns. At the
beginning of the project, we got together. Who was we? It was me -- the
delivery manager, the product owner, the product owner's boss and a few
additional senior stakeholders. In a one-off workshop, we came up with a
list of risks. We added them to the "Kanban" board and then scored them.

The idea of the score was that it was a combination of the "cost" to the
project of fixing the fallout of the risk if it actually became an
eventuality. We expressed that it, days of work for the team. For
example. A full security breach might take the whole team a month to
fix. So, we would give that risk a cost of 20. Then, we also gave each
risk a probability as a percentage. As a group, we thought that there
was a small, but not insignificant chance of this happening, so we gave
it a probability score of 5. Then the overall score of the risk was 100
(20 x 5).

Once we'd done this for all the risks that we'd identified, we ended up
with a three-column board. One column had "High risks" (>1000 points).
Another had "medium risks" (>500, <1000) and another had "small
risks". And we also had a total -- the sum of scores on all the tickets.

Every two weeks, this same group of people took another look at the risk
board. We talked through the risks, from highest to lowest and changed
the scores. And we added any new risks that anyone in the group
identified.

In one sense, none of this discussion about scores on the risks
mattered. But in another sense, it was a life saver for the project.
Because what became obvious was that, when we talked about the risks and
changes to the risks' scores, pertinent news about what was going on in
the broader organisation got discussed.

Do show and tells.

Scrum is the most popular Agile framework. And "Show and tell" is the
Scrum name for a meeting where the team demonstrate working software to
stakeholders. If you're doing user research, it's also an opportunity to
talk about the findings that you got from doing user research.
Demonstrate to yourselves and to anyone who will watch and listen. Talk
through the findings of your user research. Walk through the designs
that have been created as a result of that user research. Demonstrate
the working software that your team has been working on that week. The
development team are often reluctant to do this, especially if what
they're working on doesn't have an obvious UI. It's still important
that you insist that they do it.

Invite people from all over your stakeholder map to your show and tells.
Remember the story about the bank and the fraud project? Just one
comment might let you know something that's vital for your project.
Yes, it could derail your project, but when would you rather know?
Sooner or later?

Embrace your deadlines.

Yeah, I said it. Embrace deadlines as opportunities to negotiate scope
and set software free. Some bosses see deadlines as opportunities to
mess with you. They want to make you and your team work longer hours
while giving them time off from thinking about what a product really
needs to do. Some bosses just see the promise of delivering for a
deadline as a way of getting *their* boss of *their* back. But you
don't have to see them like that. You can see them as powerful, if a
little clumsy, ways of exploring the stakeholder map. The map of the
swamp. If you do try to release something, who jumps out and tells you
that you can't? Who suddenly appears and tries to take credit? Who
objects to you doing *anything* on the grounds of security,
accessibility, secrecy? Which non-functional requirement really is a
deal breaker that stops the software from going live? Software wants to
be free. You should want it to be free. You should do your best to help
it. We'll talk more about this in the next chapter [Chapter ESCAPE]

Exploit the crisis.

What if your team does release software that nobody wants to use? What
if your team does release software that nobody is allowed to use because
it doesn't meet regulations? One way to think of this is that all
successful software becomes iterative and incremental, sooner or later.
All successful software incorporates feedback from its users sooner or
later.

This is the point of comparing a software development project to a
development in a swamp. A software development project is, to some
degree, building on unchartered ground. Even though the people who fund
it will rarely talk about it in such terms. It's not clear what's hidden
in the waters of the swamp. It might be untold riches. It might be a
virulent disease. But whatever is found there, lots of people are going
have an opinion about it. The people who already live there, the people
who want to live there they have opinions. They have things that they
value. The same with the people who will never live there but still have
opinions and interests. This is because they are in power, or because
they want to preserve some aspect of the environment or possibly for
some other reasons. Some other reasons that, without research, it would
be difficult to really understand.

The message of this chapter is that the place that's pointed to by the
dream of a project that we talked about in [Chapter Streams] is a
mysterious and complex place. And the way to give your project the best
chance of thriving in this mysterious place is research and
investigation. Talk to as many of the interested and potentially
interested parties as you can. Understand how their interests and values
interact -- or conflict. Find out as much as you can about the lie of
the land. And the way you do this most effectively is to bring into the
team professional surveyors, user researchers who can can talk to the
interested parties.

