<link rel="stylesheet" href="../assets/css/style.css">

# The nonsense 

So this is my quandary. I want to write about the difficulty i've had working on projects that make no sense. I've worked on several. For example the DQ project. The aim of the project was to "digitize" a multi-stage administrative process. But the project was nonsense for a lot of reasons.
1. There was an insistence that all the software development be done on a remote development environment - for reasons of security.
2. That was an insistence that all the code that was written should go through a code checking program as part of the build. Some of the rules that the code quality checker used weren't relevant to what we were writing. But we couldn't get permission to change the file that contained the rules.
3. Commits to the code repository had to go through a code reviewing tool. As part of the code review process, someone other than the developer who had submitted the code had to approve the code, saying that it met coding standards. We didn't have any coding standards. Actually we had a dress code, but no coding standards.
4. Even though software developement was supposed to happen on a remote virtual desktop, internet connectivity was extremely poor. It was extremely common for the developers to lose their connection to the virtual environment and it was not uncommon for the developers to lose code that they had been working on on the virtual environment.
5. Development was supposed to be done on an agreed software stack. No agreement, to my knowledge was ever made about the software stack.
6. There were no spoons in the kitchen.
7. At one point the software review tool that was a mandatory step in the process of submitting code to the repository disappeared for several days.
8. Because of a disputed between the organisation that we were working for and one of their key groups of target customers, we were forbidden from talking these customers.
9. The ops people that we were talking to weren't familiar with Agile. They wanted to generate all the documentation that was required for an old-school, waterfall change release for *every* story in the backlog.
10. It was a multi-vendor environment. The people who were supplying the servers were different from the people who were doing the architecture. People from multiple vendors were on different development teams.
11. Some of the team members who were being supplied by some of the suppliers had completely the wrong skills. We working in a unix environment - some of the suppliers sent us people who were windows specialists.
12. We were forbidden from using cloud services like Amazon because they weren't security approved. But because of the code review, the code checking and the documentation to get anything out of development environment, into a production environment, this combined with the poor wifi, it was extremely temption to use private cloud environments to make progress.
13. About three months into the project one of the architects (he wasn't the lead architect, but he was the architect who actually did things) decided that we were going to use a different architetural approach from the one that we'd been using up to then. This meant that pretty much all the work that we'd been doing up to then needed to be reworked.
14. None of these problems. Not one of them, stopped senior management from insisting that progress continue to be made in development. Even though most of these issues, just on their own would have been enough to stop development stone dead.
15. One senior "Agile coach" (who had sold into the project an entire team of Agile coaches) said at one of the all hands meetings "we're going to have no problem meeting the target for delivery, all we have to do is double our velocity."
Here's part of what I think was going on. The company or companies that had been contracted to provide servers hadn't get specifications for the servers until very late, so the they were late providing servers. This meant that they had absolutely no incentive to give us access to those servers. The team who were doing this work were close to the internal IT team. So they encourage the interal IT in their efforts to create "safeguards" like the SonarQube step (the one where the rules couldn't be changes) and the Gerrit step.
Long story short. Nobody beyond the development team was incentivised to speed up or streamline the process of getting code onto a like live servier. In fact, nobody beyond the development seemed to be incentivised to get any code *at all* onto the like-live server.
There didn't seem to be anyone that we could see visible with the organisation - that we could talk to - who could speed up the wifi. Eventually it did speed up, we were never sure how it happened, but it happend after we created the "WIFI wall of shame" - an area of wall where I encourage the developers to write on a post-it, with a date, every time they had an outage of their network connection.
Why did I mention spoons?
Because every week we had a meeting of Scrum Masters with the senior delivery manager to talk about a list of the issues that we had. Which was pretty much the list I've given here. And for several weeks - top of that list, the thing that we talked about first, because presumeably in the mind of someone, it was the most important, was spoons. 
That was until one my fellow Scrum Masters finally realised he'd had enough, tilted his head back and in a high pitched chattering whine screamed that never wanted to hear about spoons again.
