<link rel="stylesheet" href="../assets/css/style.css">

# All projects are bets

This is what I've been writing about for the last two months.

All projects are bets. What that means for you as a project manager is
that there is always a non-zero chance that the project will fail and
*it won't be your fault.*

People know that this is the case. As a result they play a bunch of
games. The people who made the bet play a game where they try to be
around when the project is going well and paying off and try to make
sure they're not around when things are going badly. We call this game
HIWTYL ( heads I win tails you lose).

The people who made the bet *and* the people who are doing the work
conspire together to hide problems that would stop the project
happening. Because the bosses want to make the bet and the workers want
work.

And everybody pretends that if only we follow project management method
X in exactly the right way and everyone involved is properly "qualified"
the project is guaranteed to be a success.

As a project manager you can rail against all of this as much as you
want. But you're very unlikely to change how any of it works.

What you *can* do is try to shorten the odds of the bet. How? Through
the twin tactics of user research and frequent deliver of working
software into the hands of users. By doing this you will start to
understand the real odds of the project and it's likely pay off.

Sometimes the payoff will be way more than expected. Sometimes there
won't be one. It's a bet remember. There's a non zero chance that it
will fail all by itself.

Sometimes it will become obvious that the only way to make the project
pay off is to "up the stakes."

It's your job (along with the product owner) to see these changes in the
odds and communicate the options, give the project's stakeholder's the
chance to change their bet or fold.

Ok user research, working software, communicate changes in the odds.
Simples. No?

No.

Because, for reasons that stakeholders mostly keep to themselves
stakeholders often reasonable if long shot bets into "nonsense
accumulators" they combine the bet that the software will be valuable
and useful and the bet that it can be delivered on time with the bet
that it can be done without talking to users and then combine that with
the bet that it can be done without the necessary tech resources, or
without necessary legal permissions or without paying anybody!

Sometimes the combined odds of the project skyrocket. The chances of any
success approach zero. It's like the biblical story of the Israelites
being asked to make bricks without straw.

Then your job is to communicate that the odds got crazy. We can't do
this software without talking to users. We can do software without
servers to run it on.

We can't make internetz without internetz.

But here's where it gets really crazy. Often the people who are asking
you to deliver bricks without straw will try to stop you telling them
that that's what they're asking for. They'll put a baby seal in between
you and them so no bad news will reach them. Or they'll put an attack
dog in the way that barks and growls until you shut up.

Now it's your job to somehow get around these weird beasts. And it's
also your job to spot when you can't do that. You can't fix the nonsense
accumulator. You can't find any straw for the bricks. Like all good
poker players you need when to throw down your cards and sprint for the
door.
